---
layout: post
title: "RESUME"
date: 2020-1-12 18:43:00
categories: tech
excerpt: 这部分是文章摘要
---

## Self Introduction

My name is Cheng Ding, I got a batchlor degree in software engineering from DMU two years ago and was recommended to persue a master degree in ECNU. And now I am a 2nd year postgradudate student in Data Science and Engineering Institute, in ECNU. 

---

### What did I do during the two years?

As a postgraduate student in ECNU, in addition to taking courses, reading papers and books, I have taken part in two projects supervised by my Boss, Professor Weining Qian.

- courses: Algorithm design and analysis, Information Retrieval, Computational Advertising;
- papers: Information Retrieval, Social Network, 
- books: Collective Intelligence Programming, Information Retrieval, Algorithm Design Mannual, Introduction to Lucene.

- projects:
    - Enterprise Knowledge Base Construction: focuses on extracting company names as entities and relationships between them from news data, and put them into a graph. 
    - Social Media Data Management: Weibo project focuses on crawling massive microblog data for analysis. 
- Internship
    Last year, I had an oversea internship in Bangalore, Infosys, focused on constructing an enterprise social network for employees to collaborate and for managers to make better decisions.

---

### For fun projects

1. Spelling corrector for English setences
2. Android Remote controller

---

### Interests

1. read tech blogs: 
    twitter engineering blog, linkedin, indeed.

2. solve problems: 
    In May, I spent two weeks attending Beauty of Programming 2016, held by Microsoft and got a 36th rank as a team leader for a 3 people team.

3. coursera:
    algorithm by stanford and princeton, learning how to learn, children nutrition.

---

### Spare time

1. sports like ultimate frisebee, which is a good sport and easy to play with friends. I am the first one to play this in my lab and now many of my friends like to play this.
2. basketball is one of my favorite,as a one player of the basketball team for Software Engineering Institute, we achieved the fourth awards in ECNU zhongbei campus, which is the worsest award recently years in such a school.
3. somtimes swim

2. I like photography and would like to take photos and do post production for my friends.

3. I am experiences volunteering for acdamic activities for my Institute.

---